Previously, you learned about
what operating systems are.
Now, let's discuss
how they work.
In this video, you'll
learn what happens with
an operating system, or OS,
when someone uses a
computer for a task.
Think about when
someone drives a car.
They push the gas pedal
and the car moves forward.
They don't need to
pay attention to
all the mechanics that
allow the car to move.
Just like a car can't
work without its engine,
a computer can't work without
its operating system.
The job of an OS is to help
other computer programs
run efficiently.
The OS does this by taking care of
all the messy details
related to controlling,
the computer's hardware,
so you don't have to.
First, let's see what
happens when you turn
on the computer.
When you press the power button,
you're interacting
with the hardware.
This boots the computer and
brings up the operating system.
Booting the computer means that
a special microchip called
a BIOS is activated.
On many computers
built after 2007,
the chip was replaced
by the UEFI.
Both BIOS and UEFI contain
booting instructions that are
responsible for loading
a special program
called the bootloader.
Then, the bootloader is
responsible for starting
the operating system.
Just like that, your
computer is on.
As a security analyst,
understanding these processes
can be helpful for you.
Vulnerabilities can occur in
something like a
booting process.
Often, the BIOS is not
scanned by the
antivirus software,
so it can be vulnerable
to malware infection.
Now, that you learned how to
boot the operating system,
let's look at how
you and all users
communicate with the
system to complete a task.
The process starts
with you, the user.
And to complete tasks, you use
applications on your computer.
An application is a program
that performs a specific task.
When you do this,
the application
sends your request to
the operating system.
From there, the operating
system interprets this request
and directs it to the
appropriate component
of the computer's hardware.
In the previous video,
we learned that the
hardware consists of
all the physical components
of the computer.
The hardware will also send
information back to
the operating system.
And this in turn is sent
back to the application.
Let's give a simple
overview of how this works
when you want to use the
calculator on your computer.
You use your mouse to click on
the calculator application
on your computer.
When you type in the number
you want to calculate,
the application communicates
with the operating system.
Your operating system then sends
a calculation to a
component of the hardware,
the central processing
unit, or CPU.
Once the hardware does the work
of determining the final number,
it sends the answer back
to your operating system.
Then, it can be displayed in
your calculator application.
Understanding this process is
helpful when investigating
security events.
Security analysts
should be able to
trace back through
this process flow
to analyze where a security
event could have occurred.
Just like a mechanic needs to
understand the inner
workings of a car
more than an average driver,
recognizing how
operating systems
work is important knowledge
for a security analyst.